In this lecture, what I want to do is talk
about the velocity of the robot's end-effector.
For the last couple of lectures, we have looked
at concepts like forward kinematics and forward
kinematics is the relationship between the
joint angles and the robot's end-effector
pose, so I put in the joint angles and I get
out the end-effector pose.
The inverse kinematics is sort of the opposite.
I say what I want the end-effector pose to
be and what comes out of the algorithm of
the joint angles that I need in order to achieve
that end-effector pose.
The problem, what we are going to talk about
in this particular lecture is velocity transform.
If the joints move at this particular velocity,
what is the velocity of the robot's end-effector
and you note that I have written the velocity
of the joints as q-dot, so dot represents
the time rate of change. It is a common notation
in differential calculus and the pose of the
robot's end-effector I have been using this
symbol, psi E, to represent the pose of the
end-effector and we have talked about how
that is combination of position and orientation.
So, in this particular case, what we are talking
about now is cosine dot. We are talking about
the rate of change of a pose and that is an
interesting and not necessarily intuitive
thing; so first of all we are going to talk
about what does the rate of change of a pose
mean, what kind of mathematical object do
we use to represent that and then what is
the relationship between that thing, the psi
dot, and the rate of change of the joint angles
of the robot itself.
So, that is what this lecture is about. It
is about understanding relationship between
velocity of the joints and the rate of change
of pose.